import { Link } from 'src/components/Link/Link'
import { LinkExternal } from 'src/components/Link/LinkExternal'

Also known as <Lin name="B.1.621" /> and <Who name="Mu" />

_Note that as of 22 Mar 2022, the Nextstrain build is no longer being regularly updated, as there have been no new sequences seen in this cluster for many months. It will continue to be tracked in the graphs._

<Var name={'21H (Mu)'}/> appears to have arisen in early 2021 in South America. Early sequences are predominantly from Colombia.
It has now also been detected in North America and Europe.
<br/><br/>

This variant carries some mutations that are also seen in the variants of concern/interest, such as <AaMut mut={"S:T95I"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:E484K"}/> (see <Mut name="S:E484"/>), <AaMut mut={"S:N501Y"}/> (see <Mut name="S:N501"/>), <AaMut mut={"S:P681H"}/> (see <Mut name="S:P681"/>), and <AaMut mut={"S:D950N"}/>. (See the [Shared Mutations Table](/shared-mutations) for a full list of shared mutations.)

<Var name={'21H (Mu)'} prefix=""/> has a 3 nucleotide/1 amino acid insertion in the Spike protein.
This is sometimes reported as <AaMut mut={"S:Y144T"}/> and <AaMut mut={"S:Y145S"}/> with an insertion <code>'N'</code> at position 146 (as in <LinkExternal href="https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.05.08.21256619v1">Laiton-Donato et al. medRxiv]</LinkExternal>).
In Nextstrain/Nextclade, insertions are not reported directly, as this throws off the numbering of the rest of the gene, and so the changes are instead reported as <AaMut mut={"S:Y144S"}/> and <AaMut mut={"S:Y145N"}/>.
CoVariants reports this configuration to be consistent with what is visible on the Nextstrain focal builds.
<br/><br/>

<Var name={'21H (Mu)'} prefix=""/> also has a 4-base frame-shifting deletion in gene <code>ORF3a</code> (nucleotides <NucMut mut="G26158-" /> to <NucMut mut="A26161-" />).
This generates a stop codon 2 amino-acids after the deletion, which effectively truncates the gene.
Additionally, both of the amino-acids following the deletion are changed.
Here, this is annotated as the following changes: <AaMut mut={'ORF3a:V256I'}/> <AaMut mut={'ORF3a:N257Q'}/> <AaMut mut={'ORF3a:P258*'}/>. 
<br/><br/>

- A characterization of the variant from [Laiton-Donato et al. medRxiv](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.05.08.21256619v1) is available
- See the [CoV-Lineages report](https://cov-lineages.org/lineages/lineage_B.1.621.html) on this variant.

_Please help by providing links to further information about this variant if you can!_
