import { LinkExternal } from 'src/components/Link/LinkExternal'
import { Link } from 'src/components/Link/Link'



<MdxContent filepath="VoCHeader.md'" />

### 22C (Omicron)
Also known as <Lin name="BA.2.12.1" /> and <Who name="Omicron" />

_Note that as of 6 Jun 2023, the Nextstrain build is no longer being regularly updated, as there is little ongoing circulation. It will continue to be tracked in the graphs._

<MdxContent filepath="OmicronHeader.md'" />

<Var name="22C (Omicron)"/> appears to have arisen in late 2021 or early 2022, possibly in North America. As of April 2022, the vast majority of sequences of this lineage (>97%) have been detected in the USA.
<br/><br/>

As with all <Who name="Omicron" /> variants, <Var name="22C (Omicron)" prefix=""/> is primarily of concern due to the the notable increase in transmission and immune evasion of this variant family. They have a large number of mutations in the Spike gene, with many of these in the receptor binding domain and N-terminal domain, which may play key roles in ACE2 binding and antibody recognition.
<br/>

<Var name="22C (Omicron)" prefix=""/> shares many Spike mutations with <Var name="21K (Omicron)" prefix=""/> and even more Spike mutations with <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/>. In fact, The <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> and <Var name="22C (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, Spike mutations are identical except for that <Var name="22C (Omicron)" prefix=""/> has additional mutations at <AaMut mut={"S:L452Q"}/> and <AaMut mut={"S:S704L"}/>.
<br/>

<Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> does not have the <Mut name="S:H69-"/> and <AaMut mut={"S:V70-"}/> deletion found in <Var name="22A (Omicron)" prefix=""/> and <Var name="22B (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, and so cannot be detected through "S gene drop out" in a <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> background.
<br/><br/>

- Neutralizing titers against <Var name="22C (Omicron)" prefix=""/> were reduced compared to <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> in vaccinated (CoronaVac) individuals ([Cao et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.04.30.489997v1))
- ACE2 binding affinity was increased in <Var name="22C (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, compared with <Var name="21K (Omicron)" prefix=""/> and other <WhoBadge name="Omicron" /> variants ([Cao et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.04.30.489997v1))

<Var name="22C (Omicron)" prefix=""/> does not have any additional amino-acid mutations outside of spike, compared to <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/>.

<AaMut mut={"ORF1a:L3201F"}/> has arisen multiple times within <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/>. In South Africa, where this variant is suspected to have originated, it is most present as wild type (L), while outside of South Africa, the <AaMut mut={"ORF1a:L3201F"}/> mutation is more common. Thus, sub-clades of <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> may or may not have <AaMut mut={"ORF1a:L3201F"}/>, depending on whether they descend from part of <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> carrying this mutation. Notably, <Var name="22A (Omicron)" prefix=""/> and <Var name="22B (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, thought to have arisen in South Africa, do <i>not</i> have this mutation, whereas <Var name="22C (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, thought to have originated in North America, has it.
<br/><br/>

_Please help by providing links to further information about this variant if you can!_

_(Thanks to Erik Boehm for his work on curating information relating to 22A-22C, which was used on these pages)_
