import { LinkExternal } from 'src/components/Link/LinkExternal'
import { Link } from 'src/components/Link/Link'




<MdxContent filepath="clusters/VoCHeader.md" />

### <VarOrLinText name={'22E (Omicron)'} />
Also known as <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" invert={true} /> and <Who name="Omicron" />

<MdxContent filepath="clusters/OmicronHeader.md" />

<VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)"/> likely arose in mid-2022, possibly in central or western Africa. It was first identified as 'of interest' in August and has expanded globally since then.
<br/><br/>

As with all <Who name="Omicron" /> variants, <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> is primarily of concern due to the notable increase in transmission and immune evasion of this variant family. They have a large number of mutations in the Spike gene, with many of these in the receptor binding domain and N-terminal domain, which may play key roles in ACE2 binding and antibody recognition.
<br/>

<VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> shares all the mutations (including in Spike) found in <VarOrLin name="22B (Omicron)" prefix=""/> (see this variant for more information on these mutations), but also has additional mutations.
<br/>

Within Spike, <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> has futher mutations at <AaMut mut={"S:K444T"}/> and <AaMut mut={"S:N460K"}/>. In addition, the previous mutation in ancestor <VarOrLin name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> of <AaMut mut={"S:Q493R"}/> is reverted in <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> and shown in the mutation list and shared mutations page as <AaMut mut={"S:Q493Q"}/>.

Outside of Spike, <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> has futher mutations at 
<AaMut mut={"ORF1a:Q556K"}/>, <AaMut mut={"ORF1a:L3829F"}/>, <AaMut mut={"ORF1b:Y264H"}/>, <AaMut mut={"ORF1b:M1156I"}/>, <AaMut mut={"ORF9b:P10F"}/> (compared to <AaMut mut={"ORF9b:P10s"}/> in <VarOrLin name="22B (Omicron)" prefix=""/>), and <AaMut mut={"N:E136D"}/>. 
<br />

A number of lineages within <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, most notably Pango lineage <Lin name={'BQ.1.1'} /> have acquired a further mutation <AaMut mut={"S:R346T"}/> that is known to help the virus evade neutralizing antibodies.

From the mutations and initial lab results, there is concern that <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> may have an increased ability to evade existing immunity.
- A study looking at ability to neutralize <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> in vaccinated and vaccinated individuals with <Who name="Omicron" /> breakthrough infections, found significant reduction in neutralization titers while maintaining ACE2 binding affinity. This is particularly true for sublineage <Lin name={'BQ.1.1'} /> ([Cao et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.09.15.507787v3))
- The same study also found that <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> (again, in particular for sublineage <Lin name={'BQ.1.1'} />) can escape the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) Evusheld and Bebtelovimab, making clinically available mAbs as of October 2022 likely ineffective against the variant ([Cao et al. bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.09.15.507787v3))
- A study looking at neutralizing antibody and memory B cell responses over time and after breakthrough infection found that <AaMut mut={"S:N460K"}/> escaped neutralizing antibodies and corresponded with the (then) newly emerging variant <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> ([Kaku et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.09.21.508922v1.full))
- A study looking at <VarOrLin name="22E (Omicron)" prefix=""/> lineages <Lin name={'BQ.1'} /> and <Lin name={'BQ.1.1'} /> found enhanced neutralization resistance as well as enhanced fusogenicity compared to ancestral <VarOrLin name="22B (Omicron)" prefix=""/> driven by <AaMut mut={"S:N460K"}/> ([Que et al.](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.10.19.512891v1.full.pdf))



_Please help by providing links to further information about this variant if you can!_




