notes.md, before:

when did holiday period start, and end
when did travel restrictions start

this was common in spain, and holidays took it all places
would be good to communicate with spain

uk spain quarantine from 25 July

Look at each genotype, see which are represented in which country

# Quarantine Start

### Belgium
Banned all non-essential travel to Barcelona and Lleida in Spain from 6 August (also some areas of France, Switzerland) [Schengen Visa Info](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/belgium-bans-non-essential-travel-to-parts-of-france-spain-and-switzerland/)

Possibly also to Navarre, ("already includes Barcelona and Aragon") [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tamarathiessen/2020/08/05/france-spain-belgium-bans-travel-covid-red-zones-europe/#72b0bf452acb)

Spain moved to 'red zone' on 4th Sept [Brussels Times](https://www.brusselstimes.com/belgium/129682/belgium-in-brief-getting-out-of-spain/)

All Spain was not allowed by 4 October [WaybackMachine](https://web.archive.org/web/20201004003652/https://diplomatie.belgium.be/en/covid_table)

Uk added Belgium to quarantine list from 8 Aug [ABTA Mag](https://abtamag.com/2020/08/07/belgium-andorra-and-bahamas-removed-from-safe-list/)

Belgium info page (only current, not past) [Diplomatie](https://diplomatie.belgium.be/en)

### Germany

Since 14 Aug, mainland Spain & Balarics (not Canaries) a risk area - must test negative within 10 days [German Gov](https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/Transport/Archiv_Risikogebiete/Risikogebiete_26082020_en.pdf?__blob=publicationFile)

All of Spain is a 'risk area' since 2 Sept, must test within 10 days and be negative, quarntine until then, and quarantine if positive. [German Gov](https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/Risikogebiete_neu.html)

### France
Opened borders to EU on 15 June (see quarantine section)

Borders remain open as of 5 Oct [French Gov](https://www.gouvernement.fr/en/coronavirus-covid-19)
[Diplomatic French site](https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/coming-to-france/coronavirus-advice-for-foreign-nationals-in-france/)

### Latvia
May 21st, opened to EU countries - with 14 day quarantine. July 1st, opened to EU countries, some without quarantine. Website says that as of 16 July Spain is on no-quarantine list. [TravelOffPath](https://www.traveloffpath.com/latvia-has-reopened-for-tourism-everything-you-need-to-know/)

17 July Spain was 'yellow' - must quarantine 14 days [Latvia gov](https://www.spkc.gov.lv/lv/valstu-saslimstibas-raditaji-ar-covid-19-0/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf)

24 July it was moved to 'red' - must quarantine 14 days [Latvia gov](https://www.spkc.gov.lv/lv/valstu-saslimstibas-raditaji-ar-covid-19-0/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf)

UNITED KINGDOM
From July 1st, UK was not required to quarantine e. Website says that as of 16 July Spain is on no-quarantine list. [TravelOffPath](https://www.traveloffpath.com/latvia-has-reopened-for-tourism-everything-you-need-to-know/)

UK was added to quarantine list (14 days) on 14th August [Latvia gov](https://www.spkc.gov.lv/lv/valstu-saslimstibas-raditaji-ar-covid-19-0/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf)

[All Latvian gov traveller updates](https://www.spkc.gov.lv/lv/valstu-saslimstibas-raditaji-ar-covid-19-0)

### UK
From midnight 26 July travellers from Spain must quarantine 14 days [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-53540691)

From Aug 29, travellers from Spain must quarantine 14 days [Swiss Info](https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/uk-adds-switzerland-to-quarantine-list/45996348)

#### Northern Ireland
Same, 26 July (Spain) [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-northern-ireland-53540633)

#### Scotland
Same, removal on 26 July (Spain) [Scottish Sun](https://www.thescottishsun.co.uk/news/5852797/coronavirus-scotland-spain-quarantine/)

From Aug 22, travellers from Spain must quarantine 14 days
[The Local](https://www.thelocal.ch/20200825/switzerland-to-be-added-to-uk-quarantine-list-reports)

### Norway
From 25 July travellers from Spain must quarantine 10 days [SchengenVisaInfo](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/norway-advises-its-citizens-against-non-essential-travel-to-spain-and-andorra/)

From Aug 21 travellers from UK must quarantine 10 days [UK GOV](https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/norway) [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-norway-britain-idUSKCN25F27U)

### Switzerland
Spain listed as 'increased risk of infection' from 8 Aug - must quarantine 10 days [Swiss gov site](https://www.bag.admin.ch/bag/en/home/krankheiten/ausbrueche-epidemien-pandemien/aktuelle-ausbrueche-epidemien/novel-cov/empfehlungen-fuer-reisende/quarantaene-einreisende.html#accordion1601564486504) -- see 'List valid upon arriving in Switzerland between 8.8.2020'

From 28 Sept travellers have to quarantine 10 days from UK [Swiss Info](https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/uk-lands-on-swiss-quarantine-list/46058080) [Swiss gov site](https://www.bag.admin.ch/bag/en/home/krankheiten/ausbrueche-epidemien-pandemien/aktuelle-ausbrueche-epidemien/novel-cov/empfehlungen-fuer-reisende/quarantaene-einreisende.html#accordion1601564486504) -- see 'List valid upon arriving in Switzerland between 8.8.2020'

### Netherlands
Spain in 'orange risk' from 24 Aug [Murcia Today](https://murciatoday.com/the-netherlands-advises-against-traveling-to-spain-including-canary-islands-due-to-increase-in-infections_1496881-a.html)
Must Quarantine for 10 days [DutchNews](https://www.dutchnews.nl/news/2020/08/all-of-spain-more-parts-of-france-are-code-orange-as-coronavirus-cases-rise/)

Some regions of Spain were included earlier... from at least 19 Aug...? [SchengenVisaInfo](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/netherlands-lifts-quarantine-requirement-for-sweden/)
Or before 15 Aug? [NLTimes](https://nltimes.nl/2020/08/15/new-travel-warnings-brussels-ibiza-madrid-paris-report)

Barcelona & Segria region were set to 'orange' from 28 July - 14 day quarantine [DutchNews](https://www.dutchnews.nl/news/2020/07/barcelona-no-go-area-for-dutch-tourists-as-official-risk-rises-to-orange/)

Up to date Spain map from Dutch govt [govt site](https://www.nederlandwereldwijd.nl/landen/spanje/reizen/reisadvies)

# Lockdown

## Belgium
June 15 allowed entry for Schengen, EU, United Kingdom [Schengen Visa Info](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/belgium-bans-non-essential-travel-to-parts-of-france-spain-and-switzerland/)

## Spain
"Spain emerged from lockdown on 21 June" [Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/jul/26/why-are-travellers-to-the-uk-from-spain-being-asked-to-quarantine-coronavirus)

Spain opened borders to EU countries on 21 June (but not Portugal, until 1 July[AA](https://www.aa.com.tr/en/europe/spain-opens-borders-as-cases-inch-up-again/1896454#:~:text=Total%20COVID%2D19%20infections%20in,requested%20more%20time%20in%20isolation.)

## Netherlands
From June 15, open to EU & Schengen Area where under control. Denmark, UK, Sweden are 'code Orange' (meaning of this can vary...) [NL times](https://nltimes.nl/2020/06/14/dutch-travel-bans-domestic-rules-ease-monday)

From July 1, open to all Schengen Area, except UK and Sweden who are still Code Orange. However some places still restrict travel from NL (list in article) [NL Times](https://nltimes.nl/2020/06/30/eu-let-tourists-dutch-restrictions-ease-us-still-permitted)

## France 
Opened borders to EU countries on 15 June [HSE](https://hse.cern/content/travel-restrictions-switzerland-and-france-covid-19)
[Honolulu Star Advertiser](https://www.staradvertiser.com/2020/06/14/breaking-news/france-to-end-covid-19-border-lockdown-open-up-to-europe/)

## Norway
A number of EU countries able to travel to Norway from 15 July, no quarantine (includes UK, Spain, Switzerland) [SchengenVisaInfo](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/norway-opens-up-to-eu-tourists-for-the-summer/)

## Switzerland
Opened to EU Schengen states on 15 June (includes UK) [Swiss gov site](https://www.admin.ch/gov/en/start/documentation/media-releases.msg-id-79426.html)

## UK

### England
From 10 July no need to quarantine from 59 countries, including Spain, Switzerland, Norway, France [Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/live/2020/jul/03/uk-coronavirus-live-boris-johnson-warn-public-pubs-reopen-england-saturday?page=with:block-5eff3c7b8f08ff51fe2ac38a#block-5eff3c7b8f08ff51fe2ac38a)

### Scotland
From 10 July, no need to quarantine from 57 countries, matching England's list - but Spain & Serbia must quarnatine for 14 days [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-53336489)

Spain added to excemption list on 23 July, removed on 26 July (scroll to updates) [Scottish govt website](https://www.gov.scot/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-public-health-checks-at-borders/#history)
Removal on 26 July [Scottish Sun](https://www.thescottishsun.co.uk/news/5852797/coronavirus-scotland-spain-quarantine/)

### Wales
"Wales and Northern Ireland have introduced quarantine exclusions for the same countries as England."[BBC](https://www.bbc.co.uk/newsround/53338933)
Says from 10th no Quarantine, including Spain [Sur in English](http://www.surinenglish.com/national/202007/10/travellers-from-spain-england-20200710091640-v.html)

### Northern Ireland
Same list of countries as England from 10 July [Jakarta Post](https://www.thejakartapost.com/travel/2020/07/10/northern-ireland-to-drop-covid-19-quarantine-for-same-countries-as-england.html)

#### Ireland
July 22, 'green list' countries do not need to quarantine. These 15 are: "Malta, Finland, Norway, Italy, Hungary, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Cyprus, Slovakia, Greece, Greenland, Gibraltar, Monaco and San Marino."  [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-53493599)

Seems like Spain has never been on Ireland's green list? The original 15 were cut to 10 on Aug 4 [Irish Mirror](https://www.irishmirror.ie/news/irish-news/health-news/green-list-updated-spain-uk-22616758)

From June 15, arrivals from UK must quarantine 14 days [Belfast Telegraph](https://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/news/health/coronavirus/cross-border-talks-on-coronavirus-quarantine-rules-in-ireland-still-to-result-in-deal-39273656.html)

Ireland will publish a 'green list' from 9 July [Jakarta Post](https://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2020/06/26/ireland-to-ease-travel-restrictions-with-some-countries-from-july-9.html)
But it was pushed back to 20th July [The Journal](https://www.thejournal.ie/green-list-ireland-travel-5153179-Jul2020/)

**How did Ireland control crossing border to North Ireland??**
Hard to say... can't find direct source. But seems border was not closed, but movement restrictions (2km?) may have been in place. Here are some links:
- "Because of a flaw in the Irish government's emergency legislation, people from Northern Ireland cannot be made to comply with the Republic's Covid-19 travel restrictions" [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-52777526)
- "Varadkar said anyone day-tripping from Northern Ireland into the Republic is in breach of local law in Northern Ireland, and vice versa." [The Journal](https://www.thejournal.ie/travel-from-northern-ireland-5088381-Apr2020/)
- "The regulations state that the restrictions on movement apply to people "whose place of residence is located within a relevant geographical location" and that a place of residence means "a person's home"."[BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-northern-ireland-52428314)
- "Even though we’re an island, we have a land border with the United Kingdom, i.e Northern Ireland, we’re not going to close that."[The Journal](https://www.thejournal.ie/leo-varadkar-covid-19-travel-restrictions-5080458-Apr2020/)

2km restrictions were in place until May? [Irish Times](https://www.irishtimes.com/news/health/coronavirus-the-reopening-ireland-plan-in-detail-1.4242985)

# Flights

### UK
Easyjet grounded flights on 30 March.
Resumed on 15 June? [source for both](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2020/may/21/easyjet-to-resume-domestic-flights-across-england-and-france).

Easyjet says restarting 15 June [Statement](https://mediacentre.easyjet.com/story/14243/easyjet-announces-restart-of-flying-from-15-june-with-new-bio-security-measures)

Ryanair resumed 1 July [Guardian article](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2020/may/12/ryanair-flights-resume-coronavirus-rules-july)


# Swiss Intros
node    #swiss  node        parent
B       1       has spain   has spain               I1
E       10      has spain   has spain   E -> B      I1
H       43      no spain    has spain               I2
I       4       has spain   has spain   E -> I      I1 ('norway')
N       3       no spain    no spain                I3
P       2       no spain    has spain   I -> P      I1
U       1       no spain    no spain                I4
V       57      no spain    no spain    U -> V      I4
X       23      no spain    has spain   E -> X      I1
[       2       no spain    no spain    X->Y->[     I5 ? or I1
\       1       no spain    has spain   E -> \      I1
^       1       no spain    has spain   E _> ^      I1
_       4       has spain   has spain   E -> _      I1
c       3       no spain    has spain   _ -> c      I1 ?
e       1       has spain   no spain    c -> e      I1
k       1       no spain    no spain                I6
m       4       has spain   has spain   _ -> m      I1?

Take these as 3 separate introductions
H
V
X + [


Notes on Switzerland
G - 9 Sept, 9 Sept, 12 Aug
Q/R - complicated. est early aug, dates mid-aug - mid-sept
W - kinda same, 20 aug - 10 sept

Switzerland
1-3  intros?
A root
B norway one - connects to root
  J - connects to B (spain)
T - connects to root

below is 1 or 2 intros
[ - connects to root
a - connects to ` which is all UK, ` connects to spain
d - parent has spain
e - parent has spain
   g - parent e

below 1 intro?
G - one away from norway (B), parent E (ireland UK)

beow is 1 intro
M - direct to spain

below is 1 intro
Q - parent P - all UK, P connects to spain
  R - connects to Q

below is 1 intro
W - parent V which is all UK. V connects to root
  Y - parent W
  Z - parent W

Commit message:

add denmark travel data & to fig

notes.md, after:

when did holiday period start, and end
when did travel restrictions start

this was common in spain, and holidays took it all places
would be good to communicate with spain

uk spain quarantine from 25 July

Look at each genotype, see which are represented in which country

# Quarantine Start

### Belgium
Banned all non-essential travel to Barcelona and Lleida in Spain from 6 August (also some areas of France, Switzerland) [Schengen Visa Info](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/belgium-bans-non-essential-travel-to-parts-of-france-spain-and-switzerland/)

Possibly also to Navarre, ("already includes Barcelona and Aragon") [Forbes](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tamarathiessen/2020/08/05/france-spain-belgium-bans-travel-covid-red-zones-europe/#72b0bf452acb)

Spain moved to 'red zone' on 4th Sept [Brussels Times](https://www.brusselstimes.com/belgium/129682/belgium-in-brief-getting-out-of-spain/)

All Spain was not allowed by 4 October [WaybackMachine](https://web.archive.org/web/20201004003652/https://diplomatie.belgium.be/en/covid_table)

Uk added Belgium to quarantine list from 8 Aug [ABTA Mag](https://abtamag.com/2020/08/07/belgium-andorra-and-bahamas-removed-from-safe-list/)

Belgium info page (only current, not past) [Diplomatie](https://diplomatie.belgium.be/en)

### Germany

Since 14 Aug, mainland Spain & Balarics (not Canaries) a risk area - must test negative within 10 days [German Gov](https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/Transport/Archiv_Risikogebiete/Risikogebiete_26082020_en.pdf?__blob=publicationFile)

All of Spain is a 'risk area' since 2 Sept, must test within 10 days and be negative, quarntine until then, and quarantine if positive. [German Gov](https://www.rki.de/DE/Content/InfAZ/N/Neuartiges_Coronavirus/Risikogebiete_neu.html)

### France
Opened borders to EU on 15 June (see quarantine section)

Borders remain open as of 5 Oct [French Gov](https://www.gouvernement.fr/en/coronavirus-covid-19)
[Diplomatic French site](https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/coming-to-france/coronavirus-advice-for-foreign-nationals-in-france/)

### Latvia
May 21st, opened to EU countries - with 14 day quarantine. July 1st, opened to EU countries, some without quarantine. Website says that as of 16 July Spain is on no-quarantine list. [TravelOffPath](https://www.traveloffpath.com/latvia-has-reopened-for-tourism-everything-you-need-to-know/)

17 July Spain was 'yellow' - must quarantine 14 days [Latvia gov](https://www.spkc.gov.lv/lv/valstu-saslimstibas-raditaji-ar-covid-19-0/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf/17.07.2020_en_1.pdf)

24 July it was moved to 'red' - must quarantine 14 days [Latvia gov](https://www.spkc.gov.lv/lv/valstu-saslimstibas-raditaji-ar-covid-19-0/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf/copy-of-automatisks-excel-fails-valstu-sarakstameng.pdf)

UNITED KINGDOM
From July 1st, UK was not required to quarantine e. Website says that as of 16 July Spain is on no-quarantine list. [TravelOffPath](https://www.traveloffpath.com/latvia-has-reopened-for-tourism-everything-you-need-to-know/)

UK was added to quarantine list (14 days) on 14th August [Latvia gov](https://www.spkc.gov.lv/lv/valstu-saslimstibas-raditaji-ar-covid-19-0/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf/14.08.2020-valstusaraksts-en.pdf)

[All Latvian gov traveller updates](https://www.spkc.gov.lv/lv/valstu-saslimstibas-raditaji-ar-covid-19-0)

### UK
From midnight 26 July travellers from Spain must quarantine 14 days [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-53540691)

From Aug 29, travellers from Spain must quarantine 14 days [Swiss Info](https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/uk-adds-switzerland-to-quarantine-list/45996348)

#### Northern Ireland
Same, 26 July (Spain) [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-northern-ireland-53540633)

#### Scotland
Same, removal on 26 July (Spain) [Scottish Sun](https://www.thescottishsun.co.uk/news/5852797/coronavirus-scotland-spain-quarantine/)

From Aug 22, travellers from Spain must quarantine 14 days
[The Local](https://www.thelocal.ch/20200825/switzerland-to-be-added-to-uk-quarantine-list-reports)

### Norway
From 25 July travellers from Spain must quarantine 10 days [SchengenVisaInfo](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/norway-advises-its-citizens-against-non-essential-travel-to-spain-and-andorra/)

From Aug 21 travellers from UK must quarantine 10 days [UK GOV](https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/norway) [Reuters](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-norway-britain-idUSKCN25F27U)

### Switzerland
Spain listed as 'increased risk of infection' from 8 Aug - must quarantine 10 days [Swiss gov site](https://www.bag.admin.ch/bag/en/home/krankheiten/ausbrueche-epidemien-pandemien/aktuelle-ausbrueche-epidemien/novel-cov/empfehlungen-fuer-reisende/quarantaene-einreisende.html#accordion1601564486504) -- see 'List valid upon arriving in Switzerland between 8.8.2020'

From 28 Sept travellers have to quarantine 10 days from UK [Swiss Info](https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/uk-lands-on-swiss-quarantine-list/46058080) [Swiss gov site](https://www.bag.admin.ch/bag/en/home/krankheiten/ausbrueche-epidemien-pandemien/aktuelle-ausbrueche-epidemien/novel-cov/empfehlungen-fuer-reisende/quarantaene-einreisende.html#accordion1601564486504) -- see 'List valid upon arriving in Switzerland between 8.8.2020'

### Netherlands
Spain in 'orange risk' from 24 Aug [Murcia Today](https://murciatoday.com/the-netherlands-advises-against-traveling-to-spain-including-canary-islands-due-to-increase-in-infections_1496881-a.html)
Must Quarantine for 10 days [DutchNews](https://www.dutchnews.nl/news/2020/08/all-of-spain-more-parts-of-france-are-code-orange-as-coronavirus-cases-rise/)

Some regions of Spain were included earlier... from at least 19 Aug...? [SchengenVisaInfo](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/netherlands-lifts-quarantine-requirement-for-sweden/)
Or before 15 Aug? [NLTimes](https://nltimes.nl/2020/08/15/new-travel-warnings-brussels-ibiza-madrid-paris-report)

Barcelona & Segria region were set to 'orange' from 28 July - 14 day quarantine [DutchNews](https://www.dutchnews.nl/news/2020/07/barcelona-no-go-area-for-dutch-tourists-as-official-risk-rises-to-orange/)

Up to date Spain map from Dutch govt [govt site](https://www.nederlandwereldwijd.nl/landen/spanje/reizen/reisadvies)

# Lockdown

## Belgium
June 15 allowed entry for Schengen, EU, United Kingdom [Schengen Visa Info](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/belgium-bans-non-essential-travel-to-parts-of-france-spain-and-switzerland/)

## Spain
"Spain emerged from lockdown on 21 June" [Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/jul/26/why-are-travellers-to-the-uk-from-spain-being-asked-to-quarantine-coronavirus)

Spain opened borders to EU countries on 21 June (but not Portugal, until 1 July[AA](https://www.aa.com.tr/en/europe/spain-opens-borders-as-cases-inch-up-again/1896454#:~:text=Total%20COVID%2D19%20infections%20in,requested%20more%20time%20in%20isolation.)

## Netherlands
From June 15, open to EU & Schengen Area where under control. Denmark, UK, Sweden are 'code Orange' (meaning of this can vary...) [NL times](https://nltimes.nl/2020/06/14/dutch-travel-bans-domestic-rules-ease-monday)

From July 1, open to all Schengen Area, except UK and Sweden who are still Code Orange. However some places still restrict travel from NL (list in article) [NL Times](https://nltimes.nl/2020/06/30/eu-let-tourists-dutch-restrictions-ease-us-still-permitted)

## France 
Opened borders to EU countries on 15 June [HSE](https://hse.cern/content/travel-restrictions-switzerland-and-france-covid-19)
[Honolulu Star Advertiser](https://www.staradvertiser.com/2020/06/14/breaking-news/france-to-end-covid-19-border-lockdown-open-up-to-europe/)

## Norway
A number of EU countries able to travel to Norway from 15 July, no quarantine (includes UK, Spain, Switzerland) [SchengenVisaInfo](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/norway-opens-up-to-eu-tourists-for-the-summer/)

## Switzerland
Opened to EU Schengen states on 15 June (includes UK) [Swiss gov site](https://www.admin.ch/gov/en/start/documentation/media-releases.msg-id-79426.html)

## UK

### England
From 10 July no need to quarantine from 59 countries, including Spain, Switzerland, Norway, France [Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/politics/live/2020/jul/03/uk-coronavirus-live-boris-johnson-warn-public-pubs-reopen-england-saturday?page=with:block-5eff3c7b8f08ff51fe2ac38a#block-5eff3c7b8f08ff51fe2ac38a)

### Scotland
From 10 July, no need to quarantine from 57 countries, matching England's list - but Spain & Serbia must quarnatine for 14 days [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-scotland-53336489)

Spain added to excemption list on 23 July, removed on 26 July (scroll to updates) [Scottish govt website](https://www.gov.scot/publications/coronavirus-covid-19-public-health-checks-at-borders/#history)
Removal on 26 July [Scottish Sun](https://www.thescottishsun.co.uk/news/5852797/coronavirus-scotland-spain-quarantine/)

### Wales
"Wales and Northern Ireland have introduced quarantine exclusions for the same countries as England."[BBC](https://www.bbc.co.uk/newsround/53338933)
Says from 10th no Quarantine, including Spain [Sur in English](http://www.surinenglish.com/national/202007/10/travellers-from-spain-england-20200710091640-v.html)

### Northern Ireland
Same list of countries as England from 10 July [Jakarta Post](https://www.thejakartapost.com/travel/2020/07/10/northern-ireland-to-drop-covid-19-quarantine-for-same-countries-as-england.html)

#### Ireland
July 22, 'green list' countries do not need to quarantine. These 15 are: "Malta, Finland, Norway, Italy, Hungary, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Cyprus, Slovakia, Greece, Greenland, Gibraltar, Monaco and San Marino."  [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-53493599)

Seems like Spain has never been on Ireland's green list? The original 15 were cut to 10 on Aug 4 [Irish Mirror](https://www.irishmirror.ie/news/irish-news/health-news/green-list-updated-spain-uk-22616758)

From June 15, arrivals from UK must quarantine 14 days [Belfast Telegraph](https://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/news/health/coronavirus/cross-border-talks-on-coronavirus-quarantine-rules-in-ireland-still-to-result-in-deal-39273656.html)

Ireland will publish a 'green list' from 9 July [Jakarta Post](https://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2020/06/26/ireland-to-ease-travel-restrictions-with-some-countries-from-july-9.html)
But it was pushed back to 20th July [The Journal](https://www.thejournal.ie/green-list-ireland-travel-5153179-Jul2020/)

**How did Ireland control crossing border to North Ireland??**
Hard to say... can't find direct source. But seems border was not closed, but movement restrictions (2km?) may have been in place. Here are some links:
- "Because of a flaw in the Irish government's emergency legislation, people from Northern Ireland cannot be made to comply with the Republic's Covid-19 travel restrictions" [BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-52777526)
- "Varadkar said anyone day-tripping from Northern Ireland into the Republic is in breach of local law in Northern Ireland, and vice versa." [The Journal](https://www.thejournal.ie/travel-from-northern-ireland-5088381-Apr2020/)
- "The regulations state that the restrictions on movement apply to people "whose place of residence is located within a relevant geographical location" and that a place of residence means "a person's home"."[BBC](https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-northern-ireland-52428314)
- "Even though we’re an island, we have a land border with the United Kingdom, i.e Northern Ireland, we’re not going to close that."[The Journal](https://www.thejournal.ie/leo-varadkar-covid-19-travel-restrictions-5080458-Apr2020/)

2km restrictions were in place until May? [Irish Times](https://www.irishtimes.com/news/health/coronavirus-the-reopening-ireland-plan-in-detail-1.4242985)

# Flights

### UK
Easyjet grounded flights on 30 March.
Resumed on 15 June? [source for both](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2020/may/21/easyjet-to-resume-domestic-flights-across-england-and-france).

Easyjet says restarting 15 June [Statement](https://mediacentre.easyjet.com/story/14243/easyjet-announces-restart-of-flying-from-15-june-with-new-bio-security-measures)

Ryanair resumed 1 July [Guardian article](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2020/may/12/ryanair-flights-resume-coronavirus-rules-july)


# Denmark

Denmark opens borders to majority of EU 27th June (except Portugal and Sweden) [Schengen Visa Info](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/denmark-to-reopen-for-majority-of-european-countries/)

24 July - Govt recommends returning from Aragon are 'encouraged to be tested for COVID-19' [CPH Post Online](https://cphpost.dk/?p=116775)

31 July - Govt recommends returning from Aragon, Cataluna, Navarra are 'encouraged to be tested for COVID-19" [CPH Post Online](https://cphpost.dk/?p=117090)

6 Aug - Spain added to Denmark's 'orange' list - advises against travelling to. Seems to say testing is required on return from Aragon, Catalonia, Navarra? [Murcia Today](https://murciatoday.com/austria-and-denmark-join-switzerland-in-issuing-alerts-for-travellers-from-spain_1486165-a.html)

7 Aug - "Travel to Spain has been closed on Thursday" [The Local DK](https://www.thelocal.dk/20200807/denmark-advises-against-travel-to-spain-and-postpones-part-of-re-opening)

7 Aug - Authorities advise against non-essential travel, although have not imposed any quarantine [Euro weekly News](https://www.euroweeklynews.com/2020/08/07/european-countries-give-spain-the-cold-shoulder-as-they-toughen-up-restrictions/)

12 Aug - Travel entry ban for Denmark?? [Schengen Visa Info](https://www.schengenvisainfo.com/news/majority-of-schengen-countries-urge-their-citizens-to-avoid-travel-to-spain/)

Seems like if orange or 'non-essential' travel there then "you are strongly advised to follow ... self-isolation for 14 days" [Danish Govt](https://um.dk/en/travel-and-residence/coronavirus-covid-19/)





# Swiss Intros
node    #swiss  node        parent
B       1       has spain   has spain               I1
E       10      has spain   has spain   E -> B      I1
H       43      no spain    has spain               I2
I       4       has spain   has spain   E -> I      I1 ('norway')
N       3       no spain    no spain                I3
P       2       no spain    has spain   I -> P      I1
U       1       no spain    no spain                I4
V       57      no spain    no spain    U -> V      I4
X       23      no spain    has spain   E -> X      I1
[       2       no spain    no spain    X->Y->[     I5 ? or I1
\       1       no spain    has spain   E -> \      I1
^       1       no spain    has spain   E _> ^      I1
_       4       has spain   has spain   E -> _      I1
c       3       no spain    has spain   _ -> c      I1 ?
e       1       has spain   no spain    c -> e      I1
k       1       no spain    no spain                I6
m       4       has spain   has spain   _ -> m      I1?

Take these as 3 separate introductions
H
V
X + [


Notes on Switzerland
G - 9 Sept, 9 Sept, 12 Aug
Q/R - complicated. est early aug, dates mid-aug - mid-sept
W - kinda same, 20 aug - 10 sept

Switzerland
1-3  intros?
A root
B norway one - connects to root
  J - connects to B (spain)
T - connects to root

below is 1 or 2 intros
[ - connects to root
a - connects to ` which is all UK, ` connects to spain
d - parent has spain
e - parent has spain
   g - parent e

below 1 intro?
G - one away from norway (B), parent E (ireland UK)

beow is 1 intro
M - direct to spain

below is 1 intro
Q - parent P - all UK, P connects to spain
  R - connects to Q

below is 1 intro
W - parent V which is all UK. V connects to root
  Y - parent W
  Z - parent W
