content/PerCountryIntro.md, before:

Graphs show for each country, the proportion of total number of **sequences** (*not cases*), over time, that fall into defined variant groups. Countries are displayed if they have at least 40 sequences in any variant being tracked. Countries are ordered by total number of sequences in tracked variants.


Sequences with the 69 deletion or a mutation at <AaMut mut={'S:E484'}/> in Spike are not shown on these plots as they commonly are found in other varaints (<Var name="S:N439K"/>, <Var name="S:Y453F"/>, and <Var name="S:N501"/> for <AaMut mut={'S:H69-'}/>; <Var name="S:N501"/> for <AaMut mut={'S:E484'}/>), so they would be 'double-plotted'.

**Particularly from early 2021** many countries have started preferentially sequencing samples to detect the main variants of concern (see <Var name="S:N501"/>). Often this is through sequencing samples that have an 'S-drop-out,' which in particular biases the frequencies of <Var name="S:N439K"/> and 501Y.V1 (shown here as a bias in <Var name="S:N501"/>). Alternatively, this can be through preferentially sequencing cases with particular travel histories, or connections to known cases of the variants of concern.

It is worth interpreting with caution:
- The last data point - this often has incomplete data and may change as more sequences come in
- Frequencies that are very 'jagged' - this often indicates low sequencing numbers and so may not be truly representative of the country
- In many countries, sampling may not be equal across the country: samples may only cover one area or certain areas. It's important not to assume frequencies shown are necessarily representative of the country.

Commit message:

clarify blank space in per country

content/PerCountryIntro.md, after:

Graphs show for each country, the proportion of total number of **sequences** (*not cases*), over time, that fall into defined variant groups. Countries are displayed if they have at least 40 sequences in any variant being tracked. Countries are ordered by total number of sequences in tracked variants.

The 'blank space' between the top of the coloured curve and '1' on the Y-axis is composed of variants, lineages, and mutations that we don't currently track (often a collection of many small ones).

Sequences with the 69 deletion or a mutation at <AaMut mut={'S:E484'}/> in Spike are not shown on these plots as they commonly are found in other varaints (<Var name="S:N439K"/>, <Var name="S:Y453F"/>, and <Var name="S:N501"/> for <AaMut mut={'S:H69-'}/>; <Var name="S:N501"/> for <AaMut mut={'S:E484'}/>), so they would be 'double-plotted'.

**Particularly from early 2021** many countries have started preferentially sequencing samples to detect the main variants of concern (see <Var name="S:N501"/>). Often this is through sequencing samples that have an 'S-drop-out,' which in particular biases the frequencies of <Var name="S:N439K"/> and 501Y.V1 (shown here as a bias in <Var name="S:N501"/>). Alternatively, this can be through preferentially sequencing cases with particular travel histories, or connections to known cases of the variants of concern.

It is worth interpreting with caution:
- The last data point - this often has incomplete data and may change as more sequences come in
- Frequencies that are very 'jagged' - this often indicates low sequencing numbers and so may not be truly representative of the country
- In many countries, sampling may not be equal across the country: samples may only cover one area or certain areas. It's important not to assume frequencies shown are necessarily representative of the country.
