content/PerCountryCasesIntro.md, before:

These graphs show cases per million for selected countries, coloured by the **estimated** frequency of variants. Only a small percentage of cases are sequenced in most countries, therefore these graphs show the reported case numbers coloured by the frequency of variants detected by sequences in these countries - which may represent <5% of cases. 

Case data comes from the fantastic [Our World in Data](https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus).

In some countries (particularly those good molecular surveillance) this assumption will be more appropriate than others (with few sequences, or sequences from just one area), so interpret with care!

To try to reduce misinterpretation, countries are only displayed if they sequenced at least 3% of cases in at least 50% of the 2-week periods tracked by CoVariants.

As always, **interpret the 'end' of these plots with care!** Sequencing data is often still incoming, and even case data can be delayed.

As with all of the variant plots:

- Not all sampling may be representative
- The last data points are often incomplete data (especially for cases)

Commit message:

update header case data - credit Johns Hopkins

content/PerCountryCasesIntro.md, after:

These graphs show cases per million for selected countries, coloured by the **estimated** frequency of variants. Only a small percentage of cases are sequenced in most countries, therefore these graphs show the reported case numbers coloured by the frequency of variants detected by sequences in these countries - which may represent <5% of cases. 

In some countries (particularly those good molecular surveillance) this assumption will be more appropriate than others (with few sequences, or sequences from just one area), so interpret with care!

Case data comes from the fantastic [Our World in Data](https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus), sourced from the brilliant [COVID-19 Data Repository](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19) by the CSSE at Johns Hopkins University.


To try to reduce misinterpretation, countries are only displayed if they sequenced at least 3% of cases in at least 50% of the 2-week periods tracked by CoVariants.

As always, **interpret the 'end' of these plots with care!** Sequencing data is often still incoming, and even case data can be delayed.

As with all of the variant plots:

- Not all sampling may be representative
- The last data points are often incomplete data (especially for cases)
