content/clusters/20A.EU2.md, before:

import Mut477 from 'content/clusters/S.S477.md'

_Note this cluster is only the European appearance of S:477N. It also appeared in [Nextstrain Clade 20F](https://nextstrain.org/ncov/global?label=clade:20F) in an outbreak in Jun-Oct 2020._

Another variant with <AaMut mut={'S:S477N'}/> arose independently in Australia (Nextstrain Clade 20F) and was responsible for much of the Jun-Oct 2020 outbreak ([Nextstrain build](https://nextstrain.org/ncov/oceania/2020-11-16?c=gt-S_477)).
Over the northern-hemisphere summer of 2020, <Var name="20A.EU2"/> became the second most dominant variant in western Europe, after <Var name="20E (EU1)"/>. <!-- <Var name="20E (EU1)"/> --> Though early sequences come from France, more detailed analysis of the origins is needed.


<Mut477/>

<!-- 
### S:S477N
- <AaMut mut={'S:S477N'}/> is in the receptor binding domain (RDB), important to ACE2 binding and antibody recognition
- Reported to slightly increase ACE2 binding ([Chen et al., JMB](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022283620304563); see also [Bloom Lab, ACE2 binding website](https://jbloomlab.github.io/SARS-CoV-2-RBD_DMS/))
- Reported to confer resistance to multiple antibodies, and some convalescent sera ([Gaebler et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.11.03.367391v1), [Liu et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.11.06.372037v1))
- May confer a modest increase in infectivity as measured by soluble mACE2 ([Liu et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.11.06.372037v1))
- _In vitro_ evolution to select for greater ACE2 binding resulted in mutations <AaMut mut={'S:S477N'}/>, <AaMut mut={'S:E484K'}/>, and <AaMut mut={'S:N501Y'}/> to be among the first selected ([Zahradnik et al., bioRxiv](https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.01.06.425392)). -->

Commit message:

adding Mu to 21H, stopping some build updates

content/clusters/20A.EU2.md, after:

import Mut477 from 'content/clusters/S.S477.md'

_Note that as of 2 Sept 2021, the Nextstrain build is no longer being regularly updated, as there is little ongoing circulation. It will continue to be tracked in the graphs._

_Note this cluster is only the European appearance of S:477N. The same mutation also appeared in [Nextstrain Clade 20F](https://nextstrain.org/ncov/global?label=clade:20F) in an outbreak in Jun-Oct 2020._

Another variant with <AaMut mut={'S:S477N'}/> arose independently in Australia (Nextstrain Clade 20F) and was responsible for much of the Jun-Oct 2020 outbreak ([Nextstrain build](https://nextstrain.org/ncov/oceania/2020-11-16?c=gt-S_477)).
Over the northern-hemisphere summer of 2020, <Var name="20A.EU2"/> became the second most dominant variant in western Europe, after <Var name="20E (EU1)"/>. <!-- <Var name="20E (EU1)"/> --> Though early sequences come from France, more detailed analysis of the origins is needed.


<Mut477/>

<!-- 
### S:S477N
- <AaMut mut={'S:S477N'}/> is in the receptor binding domain (RDB), important to ACE2 binding and antibody recognition
- Reported to slightly increase ACE2 binding ([Chen et al., JMB](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022283620304563); see also [Bloom Lab, ACE2 binding website](https://jbloomlab.github.io/SARS-CoV-2-RBD_DMS/))
- Reported to confer resistance to multiple antibodies, and some convalescent sera ([Gaebler et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.11.03.367391v1), [Liu et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.11.06.372037v1))
- May confer a modest increase in infectivity as measured by soluble mACE2 ([Liu et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.11.06.372037v1))
- _In vitro_ evolution to select for greater ACE2 binding resulted in mutations <AaMut mut={'S:S477N'}/>, <AaMut mut={'S:E484K'}/>, and <AaMut mut={'S:N501Y'}/> to be among the first selected ([Zahradnik et al., bioRxiv](https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.01.06.425392)). -->
