import { LinkExternal } from 'src/components/Link/LinkExternal'
import { Link } from 'src/components/Link/Link'
import VoC from 'content/clusters/VoCHeader.md'
import OmicronHead from 'content/clusters/OmicronHeader.md'
import SpikeAB from 'content/clusters/22A22B_Spike.md'

<VoC/>

### 22A (Omicron)
Also known as <Lin name="BA.4" /> and <Who name="Omicron" />

<OmicronHead/>

<Var name="22A (Omicron)"/> appears to have arisen in late 2021, possibly in South Africa. Early sequences are predominantly from South Africa, though it's now detected globally.
<br/><br/>

As with all <WhoBadge name="Omicron" /> variants, <Var name="22A (Omicron)" prefix=""/> is primarily of concern due to the the notable increase in transmission and immune evasion of this variant family. They have a large number of mutations in the Spike gene, with many of these in the receptor binding domain and N-terminal domain, which may play key roles in ACE2 binding and antibody recognition.
<br/><br/>

<SpikeAB/>
<br>

On top of the many mutations outside of the Spike that <Var name="22A (Omicron)" prefix=""/> shares with <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, <Var name="22A (Omicron)" prefix=""/> additionally has a 3 amino-acid deletion at <AaMut mut={"ORF1a:K141-"}/> to <AaMut mut={"ORF1a:F143-"}/>, and mutations at <AaMut mut={"ORF6:D61L"}/> and <AaMut mut={"N:P151S"}/>.

<AaMut mut={"ORF1a:L3201F"}/> has arisen multiple times within <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, but in South Africa, where this variant is suspected to have originated, it is most present as wild type (L). Outside of South Africa, the <AaMut mut={"ORF1a:L3201F"}/> mutation is more common. Thus, sub-clades of <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> may or may not have <AaMut mut={"ORF1a:L3201F"}/>, depending on whether they descend from part of <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> carrying this mutation. Notably, <Var name="22A (Omicron)" prefix=""/> and <Var name="22B (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, thought to have arisen in South Africa, do _not_ have this mutation, whereas <Var name="22C (Omicron)"/>, thought to have originated in North America, has it.

_Please help by providing links to further information about this variant if you can!_

_(Thanks to Erik Boehm for his work on curating information relating to 22A-22C, which was used on these pages)_