import { LinkExternal } from 'src/components/Link/LinkExternal'
import { Link } from 'src/components/Link/Link'
import VoC from 'content/clusters/VoCHeader.md'
import OmicronHead from 'content/clusters/OmicronHeader.md'
import SpikeAB from 'content/clusters/22A22B_Spike.md'

<VoC/>

### 22F (Omicron)
Also known as <Lin name="XBB" /> and <Who name="Omicron" />

<OmicronHead/>

<Var name="22F (Omicron)"/> likely arose in mid-2022, possibly in south Asia. The first sequences date to August 2022 and come from India, and has expanded substantially since then.
<br/><br/>

As with all <Who name="Omicron" /> variants, <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> is primarily of concern due to the the notable increase in transmission and immune evasion of this variant family. They have a large number of mutations in the Spike gene, with many of these in the receptor binding domain and N-terminal domain, which may play key roles in ACE2 binding and antibody recognition.

<Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> is a recombinant variant, meaning its genome consists of a combination of two different 'parent' variants. <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> is a recombinant of linaage BJ.1 (BA.2.10.1.1) (part of <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/>) and BM.1.1.1 (BA.2.75.3.1.1.1) (part of <Var name="22D (Omicron)" prefix=""/>), with a breakdpoint in the S1 region of the Spike subunit. 
<Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> has the mutations <AaMut mut={"S:V455P"}/> (from BJ.1) and <AaMut mut={"S:N460K"}/> (from BM.1.1.1), which are unique to each parent, allowing one to infer that the recombination breakpoint is likely within this short region.
<br/>
<br/>

Prior to this breakpoint, <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> has all the mutations of its <Lin name="BJ.1"/> parent, and after this breakpoint, all the mutations of its <Lin name="BM.1.1.1"/> parent. As well as the mutational set found in all <Var name="21L (Omicron)" prefix=""/> descendants, this includes mutations in Spike from BJ.1 at <AaMut mut={"S:V83A"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:Y144-"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:H146Q"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:Q183E"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:V213E"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:G339H"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:R346T"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:L386I"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:V455P"}/>, and <AaMut mut={"S:G446S"}/>, and mutations in Spike from BM.1.1.1 at <AaMut mut={"S:N460K"}/>, <AaMut mut={"S:F486S"}/>, and <AaMut mut={"S:F490S"}/>.

Additionally, <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> has a unique synonymous mutation at <NucMut mut="A19326G" />.

Some sublineages within <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/>, particularly XBB.1, have acquired the additional amino acid mutations <AaMut mut={"S:G252V"}/> (<NucMut mut="G22317T"/>) and <AaMut mut={"ORF8:G8*"}/> (<NucMut mut="G27915T"/>).

From the mutations and initial lab results, there is concern that <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> may have an increased ability to evade existing immunity.
- A study looking at ability to neutralize <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> in vaccinated and vaccinated individuals with <Who name="Omicron" /> breakthrough infections, found significant reduction in neutralization titers while maintaining ACE2 binding affinity ([Cao et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.09.15.507787v4))
- The same study also found that <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> can escape the monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) Evusheld and Bebtelovimab, making clinically available mAbs as of October 2022 likely ineffective against the variant. Additionally, <Var name="22F (Omicron)" prefix=""/> sublinages XBB.1 escaped all NTD-targeting neutralizing antibodies tested ([Cao et al. bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.09.15.507787v4))


_Please help by providing links to further information about this variant if you can!_




