content/clusters/S.501Y.V2.md, before:

import { Link } from 'src/components/Link/Link'
import { LinkExternal } from 'src/components/Link/LinkExternal'

## Mutation Information

- <AaMut mut="S:N501"/> has appeared multiple times independently: each can be associated with different accompanying mutations
- Amino-acid changes are <AaMut mut={'S:N501Y'}/> (nucleotide mutation <NucMut mut={'A23063T'}/>), <AaMut mut={'S:N501T'}/> (nucleotide mutation <NucMut mut={'A23064C'}/>), and <AaMut mut={'S:N501S'}/> (nucleotide mutation <NucMut mut={'A23064G'}/>)

---

### 20H/501Y.V2
Also known as `B.1.351`
Announced in December 2020, 501Y.V2 originated and/or initially expanded in South Africa ([Tegally et al., medRxiv](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.21.20248640v1)).

501Y.V2 is associated with multiple mutations in Spike, including: <AaMut mut={'S:N501Y'}/>, <Link href="/variants/S.E484"> <AaMut mut={'S:E484K'}/></Link> (<Link href="/variants/S.E484">see <Var name="S:E484"/> page</Link>), <AaMut mut={'S:K417N'}/>, and <AaMut mut={'S:D80A'}/>.
Additionally, there is a deletion at 242-245.<br/>
There is also a mutation in Nucleocapsid: <AaMut mut={'N:T205I'}/> and a deletion in <code>ORF1a</code>(<code>Nsp6</code>) at positions 3675-3677 (also seen in 501Y.V1 and 501Y.V3).
It does _not_ have the deletion at 69/70.

See a [focal `S.N501` build filtered & zoomed to 501Y.V2](https://nextstrain.org/groups/neherlab/ncov/S.N501?c=gt-S_501&f_clade_membership=20H/501Y.V2&label=mlabel:20C/C23664T&p=grid&r=country)

- Sera from individuals vaccined with the Moderna vaccine showed no significant reduction of neutralization against 501Y.V1 and a 6-fold reduction in 501Y.V2, but titers remained above levels expected to be protective [Moderna website](https://investors.modernatx.com/news-releases/news-release-details/moderna-covid-19-vaccine-retains-neutralizing-activity-against)
- 20H/501Y.V2 is reported to have resistance to monoclonal antibodies and convalescent plasma, with one study finding 93% of 44 plasma samples showed a reduction in titer and 48% had no detectable neutralization activity ([Wibmer et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.01.18.427166v1)). A further study also detected reduction in neutralization by convalescent plasma ([Cele et al., medRxiv](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.01.26.21250224v1)).
- 501Y.V2 has larger reduction to both mAbs and convalescent sera than 501Y.V1 ([Wang et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.01.25.428137v2))

Commit message:

update VoC info & fix broken variant badges

content/clusters/S.501Y.V2.md, after:

import { Link } from 'src/components/Link/Link'
import { LinkExternal } from 'src/components/Link/LinkExternal'

## Mutation Information

- <AaMut mut="S:N501"/> has appeared multiple times independently: each can be associated with different accompanying mutations
- Amino-acid changes are <AaMut mut={'S:N501Y'}/> (nucleotide mutation <NucMut mut={'A23063T'}/>), <AaMut mut={'S:N501T'}/> (nucleotide mutation <NucMut mut={'A23064C'}/>), and <AaMut mut={'S:N501S'}/> (nucleotide mutation <NucMut mut={'A23064G'}/>)

---

This variant is one of three 3 "Variants of Concern" reported at the end of 2020/beginning of 2021, in:
- the UK (20I/501Y.V1) <Var name="20I/501Y.V1"/>
- South Africa (20H/501Y.V2)  <Var name="20H/501Y.V2"/>
- Brazil (20J/501Y.V3)   <Var name="20J/501Y.V3"/>

See a <Link href="/shared-mutations">list of shared mutations</Link> for these variants. More information on each of these variants can be found by visiting the links above.

---

### 20H/501Y.V2
Also known as `B.1.351`
Announced in December 2020, 501Y.V2 originated and/or initially expanded in South Africa ([Tegally et al., medRxiv](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.21.20248640v1)).

501Y.V2 is associated with multiple mutations in Spike, including: <AaMut mut={'S:N501Y'}/>, <Link href="/variants/S.E484"> <AaMut mut={'S:E484K'}/></Link> (<Link href="/variants/S.E484">see <Var name="S:E484"/> page</Link>), <AaMut mut={'S:K417N'}/>, and <AaMut mut={'S:D80A'}/>.
Additionally, there is a deletion at 242-245.<br/>
There is also a mutation in Nucleocapsid: <AaMut mut={'N:T205I'}/> and a deletion in <code>ORF1a</code>(<code>Nsp6</code>) at positions 3675-3677 (also seen in 501Y.V1 and 501Y.V3).
It does _not_ have the deletion at 69/70.

See a [focal `S.N501` build filtered & zoomed to 501Y.V2](https://nextstrain.org/groups/neherlab/ncov/S.N501?c=gt-S_501&f_clade_membership=20H/501Y.V2&label=mlabel:20C/C23664T&p=grid&r=country)

See a [focal `S.E484` build filtered & zoomed to 501Y.V2](https://nextstrain.org/groups/neherlab/ncov/S.E484?c=gt-S_484&f_clade_membership=20H/501Y.V2&label=clade:20H/501Y.V2&p=grid&r=country)

- Sera from individuals vaccined with the Moderna vaccine showed no significant reduction of neutralization against 501Y.V1 and a 6-fold reduction in 501Y.V2, but titers remained above levels expected to be protective [Moderna website](https://investors.modernatx.com/news-releases/news-release-details/moderna-covid-19-vaccine-retains-neutralizing-activity-against)
- 20H/501Y.V2 is reported to have resistance to monoclonal antibodies and convalescent plasma, with one study finding 93% of 44 plasma samples showed a reduction in titer and 48% had no detectable neutralization activity ([Wibmer et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.01.18.427166v1)). A further study also detected reduction in neutralization by convalescent plasma ([Cele et al., medRxiv](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.01.26.21250224v1)).
- 501Y.V2 has larger reduction to both mAbs and convalescent sera than 501Y.V1 ([Wang et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.01.25.428137v2))
