content/clusters/S:N501.md, before:

- Defining mutations:
    - Has appeared multiple times independently: each can be associated with different accompanying mutations
    - Amino-acid changes are `N501Y` (nucleotide mutation `A23063T`), `N501T` (nucleotide mutation `A23064C`), and `N501S` (nucleotide mutation `A23064G`)
- `S:N501`
    - Mutation is in the receptor binding domain (RDB), important to ACE2 binding and antibody recognition
    - N501Y is associated with a recently reported 'new variants' in the UK and South Africa:
        - '20B/501Y.V1' (B.1.1.7) was announced in the South East of England on 14 Dec 2020 ([COG-UK Report](https://www.cogconsortium.uk/news_item/update-on-new-sars-cov-2-variant-and-how-cog-uk-tracks-emerging-mutations/), [Rambaut et al.](https://virological.org/t/preliminary-genomic-characterisation-of-an-emergent-sars-cov-2-lineage-in-the-uk-defined-by-a-novel-set-of-spike-mutations/563), [PHE report](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/947048/Technical_Briefing_VOC_SH_NJL2_SH2.pdf))
            - This particular variant is associated with multiple mutations in Spike, including: `N501Y`, a deletion at 69/70 (as seen in `S:N439K` & `S:Y453F`) ([Kemp et al. bioRxiv (21 Dec)](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.14.422555v3)), `Y144` deletion, and `P681H` (adjacent to the furin cleavage site).
            - There is also a notable truncation of `ORF8`, with `Q27*` (becomes a stop codon), and mutations in `N`: `N:D3L` and `S235F`.
        - '20C/501Y.V2' is found in South Africa and was also announced in December 2020 ([Tegally et al., medRxiv](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.21.20248640v1))
            - This variant is associated with multiple mutations in Spike, including: `N501Y`, `K417N`, and `D80A`.
            - There is also an `N` mutation: `T205I`.
            - It does _not_ have the deletion at 69/70.
    - Smaller clusters also seen in Wales, USA, & Australia
    - May be associated with adaptation to rodents and mustelids: `N501T` in ferrets ([Richard et al. Nature Comm.](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-17367-2)) and mink ([Welkers et al. Virus Evolution](https://academic.oup.com/ve/advance-article/doi/10.1093/ve/veaa094/6025194?searchresult=1)); `N501Y` in mice ([Gu et al. Science](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6511/1603))
        - Some have speculated of risk of a persistent reservoir in wild rodents/mustelids
    - May increase ACE2 binding [Bloom Lab ACE2 binding website](https://jbloomlab.github.io/SARS-CoV-2-RBD_DMS/) - in particular it is predicted to do this by increasing the time spent in the 'open' conformation ([Teruel et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.16.423118v2))
    - `N501Y` was found in longitudinally-collected samples from an immunocompromised patient ([Choi et al. NEJM](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMc2031364?query=featured_coronavirus))

Commit message:

remove mutations where possible from split-out, update links

content/clusters/S:N501.md, after:

- Defining mutations:
    - Has appeared multiple times independently: each can be associated with different accompanying mutations
    - Amino-acid changes are `N501Y` (nucleotide mutation `A23063T`), `N501T` (nucleotide mutation `A23064C`), and `N501S` (nucleotide mutation `A23064G`)
- `S:N501`
    - Mutation is in the receptor binding domain (RDB), important to ACE2 binding and antibody recognition
    - N501Y is associated with a recently reported 'new variants' in the UK and South Africa:
        - '20B/501Y.V1' (B.1.1.7) was announced in the South East of England on 14 Dec 2020 ([COG-UK Report](https://www.cogconsortium.uk/news_item/update-on-new-sars-cov-2-variant-and-how-cog-uk-tracks-emerging-mutations/), [Rambaut et al.](https://virological.org/t/preliminary-genomic-characterisation-of-an-emergent-sars-cov-2-lineage-in-the-uk-defined-by-a-novel-set-of-spike-mutations/563), [PHE report](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/947048/Technical_Briefing_VOC_SH_NJL2_SH2.pdf)), [PHE Technical Report 2](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/949639/Technical_Briefing_VOC202012-2_Briefing_2_FINAL.pdf), [PHE Technical Report 3](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/950823/Variant_of_Concern_VOC_202012_01_Technical_Briefing_3_-_England.pdf))
            - This particular variant is associated with multiple mutations in Spike, including: `N501Y`, a deletion at 69/70 (as seen in `S:N439K` & `S:Y453F`) ([Kemp et al. bioRxiv (21 Dec)](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.14.422555v3)), `Y144` deletion, and `P681H` (adjacent to the furin cleavage site).
            - There is also a notable truncation of `ORF8`, with `Q27*` (becomes a stop codon) (deletion of `ORF8` was previously associated with reduced clinical severity ([Young et al. Lancet](https://www.thelancet.com/article/S0140-6736(20)31757-8/fulltext))), and mutations in `N`: `N:D3L` and `S235F`.
        - '20C/501Y.V2' (B.1.351) is found in South Africa and was also announced in December 2020 ([Tegally et al., medRxiv](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.21.20248640v1))
            - This variant is associated with multiple mutations in Spike, including: `N501Y`, `K417N`, and `D80A`.
            - There is also an `N` mutation: `T205I`.
            - It does _not_ have the deletion at 69/70.
    - Smaller clusters also seen in Wales, USA, & Australia
    - May be associated with adaptation to rodents and mustelids: `N501T` in ferrets ([Richard et al. Nature Comm.](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-17367-2)) and mink ([Welkers et al. Virus Evolution](https://academic.oup.com/ve/advance-article/doi/10.1093/ve/veaa094/6025194?searchresult=1)); `N501Y` in mice ([Gu et al. Science](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/369/6511/1603))
        - Some have speculated of risk of a persistent reservoir in wild rodents/mustelids
    - May increase ACE2 binding [Bloom Lab ACE2 binding website](https://jbloomlab.github.io/SARS-CoV-2-RBD_DMS/) - in particular it is predicted to do this by increasing the time spent in the 'open' conformation ([Teruel et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.16.423118v2))
    - `N501Y` was found in longitudinally-collected samples from an immunocompromised patient ([Choi et al. NEJM](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMc2031364?query=featured_coronavirus))
    - In one study, sera from previously infected patients neutralised patients with `S:501N` and `S:501Y` equally ([Xie et al., bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.01.07.425740v1))
